docs-website/docs/user-guide/interacting-with-data/import-export.md, before:

---
title: Importing & Exporting Data
description: Import location data from various sources and export your GeoPulse data.
---

# Importing & Exporting Data

GeoPulse provides powerful import and export capabilities to help you migrate data from other tracking platforms, back up your location history, and analyze your data in external tools. The system uses efficient streaming parsers to handle files of any size with minimal memory usage.

## Accessing Import/Export

Navigate to **Menu → Import/Export Data** to access both import and export functionality in a tabbed interface.

## Exporting Data

Export your GeoPulse data in various formats for backup, migration, or analysis in external tools.

![Export Tab](/img/export-tab.png)

### Supported Export Formats

GeoPulse supports five export formats, each optimized for different use cases:

| Format | Description | Best For | Data Included |
|--------|-------------|----------|---------------|
| **GeoPulse** | Native format with all data types | Full backups, migration between GeoPulse instances | All data types (configurable) |
| **OwnTracks** | OwnTracks JSON format | Importing into OwnTracks apps | GPS data only |
| **GeoJSON** | Standard GIS format | GIS tools, mapping software, custom analysis | GPS data only |
| **GPX** | GPS Exchange Format | GPX viewers (GPXSee, QGIS), Garmin devices | GPS tracks, trips, stay waypoints |
| **CSV** | Comma-Separated Values | Excel, data analysis, custom scripts | GPS data with metadata |

### Export Workflow

#### 1. Select Export Format

Choose your desired format from the format options. Each format displays a description of what it's compatible with.

#### 2. Configure Format-Specific Options

**GeoPulse Format:**
- Select which data types to include:
  - **Raw GPS Data** - All location points with timestamps and accuracy
  - **Favorite Locations** - Saved favorite places
  - **Reverse Geocoding Data** - Cached address information
  - **Location Sources** - GPS tracking app configurations
  - **User Information** - Profile and preferences (excludes passwords)
- Use "Select All" or "Deselect All" for quick selection
- **Note:** Timeline data is not included in exports as it will be automatically regenerated from GPS data after import

**GPX Format:**
- **Single GPX File** - One file containing all tracks (raw GPS + timeline trips) and waypoints (timeline stays)
- **ZIP Archive** - Multiple GPX files packaged together
  - **Individual grouping** - One file per trip/stay
  - **Daily grouping** - All trips and stays for each day in one file

**CSV Format:**
Exports GPS data with the following fields:
- `timestamp` - ISO-8601 format (UTC)
- `latitude` - Decimal degrees
- `longitude` - Decimal degrees
- `accuracy` - GPS accuracy in meters (if available)
- `velocity` - Speed in km/h (if available)
- `altitude` - Altitude in meters (if available)
- `battery` - Battery percentage (if available)
- `device_id` - Device identifier (if available)
- `source_type` - Data source type

#### 3. Select Date Range

Choose the time period for your export:

**Preset Options:**
- **Last 30 Days** - Recent activity
- **Last 90 Days** - Quarterly data
- **Last Year** - Annual backup
- **All Time** - Complete history

**Custom Range:**
Use the date pickers to specify exact start and end dates.

#### 4. Start Export

Click **Start Export** to begin the export job. The system will:
1. Validate your selections
2. Create an export job
3. Process data in the background
4. Prepare the download file

### Monitoring Export Progress

Once started, you'll see a "Current Export Job" card displaying:

- **Status** - Pending, Processing, or Completed
- **Data Types** - What's being exported
- **Date Range** - Time period covered
- **Progress Bar** - Real-time completion percentage

**Status Tags:**
- 🔵 **Pending** - Job queued for processing
- 🔄 **Processing** - Actively exporting data
- ✅ **Completed** - Ready for download

### Downloading Exports

When the export completes:

1. A success notification appears
2. **Download** button becomes available in the Current Export Job card
3. Click **Download** to save the file to your computer
4. Files are automatically named with timestamps (e.g., `geopulse-export-20240115-143022.zip`)

:::tip Export Expiration
Export files are stored temporarily on the server. Download them promptly after completion.
:::

### Deleting Exports

Click the **Delete** button to remove an export job and free up server storage. You'll be asked to confirm this action as it cannot be undone.

## Importing Data

Import location data from other tracking platforms or restore GeoPulse backups.

![Import Tab](/img/import-tab.png)

### Supported Import Formats

GeoPulse can import data from six different formats:

| Format | Description | File Types | Use Case |
|--------|-------------|------------|----------|
| **GeoPulse** | Native GeoPulse exports | `.zip` | Restoring backups, migrating between servers |
| **OwnTracks** | OwnTracks export files | `.json` | Migrating from OwnTracks |
| **Google Timeline** | Google Takeout exports | `.json` | Importing Google Location History |
| **GPX** | GPS Exchange Format | `.gpx`, `.zip` | Garmin devices, fitness trackers, GPX files |
| **GeoJSON** | GeoJSON Point/LineString | `.json`, `.geojson` | GIS data, custom exports |
| **CSV** | Structured CSV format | `.csv` | Custom data sources, spreadsheets |

### Import Workflow

#### 1. Select Import Format

Choose the format that matches your source data. Each format displays:
- Accepted file types
- Description of what will be imported

#### 2. Choose Export File

Click **Choose Export File** and select your file. The system validates:
- File format matches the selected import type
- File size (any size supported thanks to streaming parser)
- File structure and contents

#### 3. Review Format-Specific Information

**GeoPulse Format:**
Select which data types to import (same options as export). You can choose to import only specific data types from a full backup.

**Other Formats (OwnTracks, Google Timeline, GPX, GeoJSON, CSV):**
An information message explains what data will be imported. These formats only support GPS location data.

**CSV Format:**
When CSV is selected, you'll see:
- **Download CSV Template** button - Get a properly formatted template
- **CSV Format Specification** - Required and optional fields
- **Example CSV** - Sample data format
- **Format Rules** - Encoding, headers, and timestamp requirements

**CSV Template Fields:**

Required:
- `timestamp` - ISO-8601 format (e.g., 2024-01-15T10:30:00Z)
- `latitude` - Decimal degrees (-90 to 90)
- `longitude` - Decimal degrees (-180 to 180)

Optional:
- `accuracy` - GPS accuracy in meters
- `velocity` - Speed in km/h
- `altitude` - Altitude in meters
- `battery` - Battery percentage (0-100)
- `device_id` - Device identifier
- `source_type` - Data source name

#### 4. Configure Import Options

**Import Only Data Within Date Range:**
- Enable this checkbox to filter imported data by date
- Select start and end dates
- Only location points within this range will be imported
- Useful for partial imports or testing

**Replace Existing Data in Time Range:**
- **Enabled:** Deletes existing data in the import time range before importing new data
  - 🧹 **Cleaner data** - Ensures no duplicates
  - ⚠️ **Warning:** Permanently deletes existing data in the time range
  - **Use for:** First-time imports or when re-importing corrected data
- **Disabled:** Merges new data with existing data
  - Checks for duplicates before inserting
  - **Use for:** Incremental imports or adding new data to existing timeline

#### 5. Start Import

Click **Start Import** to begin. The system will:

1. **Upload** - Transfer file to server with progress tracking
2. **Validate** - Check file format and structure
3. **Process** - Parse and import data using streaming parser
4. **Generate Timeline** - Automatically create timeline items from GPS data

### Monitoring Import Progress

The import process provides detailed progress tracking across multiple phases:

**Upload Phase:**
- Progress bar showing upload percentage
- File size and upload speed indicators
- Phase descriptions (Starting upload, Uploading, Finalizing)

**Processing Phase:**
After upload, you'll see:
- **Current status** - Validating, Processing, or Completed
- **File name** - Uploaded file
- **Data types** - What's being imported
- **Progress bar** - Overall completion percentage
- **Progress phases:**
  - Parsing import data
  - Importing GPS points (bulk inserting or merging)
  - Generating timeline

**Timeline Generation:**
When GPS data import reaches ~70%, timeline generation begins automatically. You'll see:
- **Timeline Generation** section with its own progress bar
- **Current step** - What the timeline generator is doing
- **Key metrics:**
  - GPS points loaded (e.g., "25,000 / 100,000 GPS points loaded")
  - Locations geocoded (e.g., "150 / 200 locations geocoded (10 pending)")
- **View Detailed Progress** button - Opens timeline job details in a new tab

:::info Automatic Timeline Generation
GeoPulse automatically analyzes your GPS data to create timeline items (trips and stays) after import. This process runs in the background and can take several minutes depending on the amount of data.
:::

### Import Completion

When the import finishes successfully:

1. Success notification appears
2. **Import Summary** displays:
   - 📍 GPS points imported
   - 🕒 Timeline items generated
   - ❤️ Favorite locations imported
   - 📱 Location sources imported

### Efficient Memory Usage

GeoPulse uses **streaming parsers** for all import operations, which means:

- ✅ **Low memory usage** - Data is processed in chunks, not loaded entirely into memory
- ✅ **Fast processing** - Efficient algorithms handle large datasets quickly
- ✅ **Handles large files** - Files up to 2GB supported
- ✅ **Reliable** - Handles interrupted imports gracefully

**File Size Limits:**
- **Frontend (Nginx):** 200MB default - can be increased via configuration
- **Backend (Quarkus):** 2GB maximum

:::tip Increasing Upload Limits
If you need to import files larger than 200MB, increase the frontend upload limit by setting `CLIENT_MAX_BODY_SIZE` in your deployment configuration. See [Frontend Nginx Configuration](/docs/system-administration/configuration/frontend) for details.
:::

This architecture allows you to import years of location history with efficient memory usage.

## Tips and Best Practices

### For Exports

1. **Regular backups** - Export your data monthly using GeoPulse format
2. **Test exports** - Try exporting a small date range first to verify format compatibility
3. **Choose the right format:**
   - Full backup → GeoPulse
   - GPS visualization → GPX or GeoJSON
   - Data analysis → CSV
   - Platform migration → Match target platform format

### For Imports

1. **Start with small files** - Test with a small date range or file first
2. **Use date filters** - Import specific time periods to avoid overwhelming the system
3. **Use "Replace data" for clean imports** - Recommended for first-time imports or when re-importing corrected data
4. **Use merge mode for incremental imports** - Safer when adding new data to existing timeline
5. **Monitor timeline generation** - Allow time for timeline processing to complete
6. **Verify imports** - Check Timeline and GPS Data pages after import

### Performance Optimization

1. **Large files** - Files up to 2GB are supported (200MB default, configurable). Large files may take 10-30 minutes to upload and process
2. **Network speed** - Upload time depends on your internet connection
3. **Timeline generation** - Can take several minutes for large datasets (years of data)
4. **File size configuration** - If you regularly import files >200MB, increase the frontend limit (see [Frontend Configuration](/docs/system-administration/configuration/frontend))
5. **Import mode selection:**
   - Replace mode: Clean slate, no duplicates, recommended for first-time imports
   - Merge mode: Preserves existing data, checks for duplicates, use for incremental updates

## Troubleshooting

### Export Issues

**Problem:** Export button is disabled

**Solutions:**
- Ensure you've selected a date range
- For GeoPulse format, select at least one data type
- Verify start date is before end date

**Problem:** Export file won't download

**Solutions:**
- Check your browser's download settings
- Disable popup blockers
- Try a different browser
- Check available disk space

### Import Issues

**Problem:** File upload fails

**Solutions:**
- Verify file format matches selected import type
- Check file isn't corrupted (try opening in appropriate app)
- Try a different browser

**Problem:** Upload fails with "413 Request Entity Too Large" or file size error

**Solutions:**
- Your file exceeds the 200MB default limit
- Increase the frontend upload limit by setting `CLIENT_MAX_BODY_SIZE` (see [Frontend Configuration](/docs/system-administration/configuration/frontend))
- Example: Set `CLIENT_MAX_BODY_SIZE=500M` in your `.env` file and restart GeoPulse
- Maximum supported file size is 2GB (backend limit)

**Problem:** Import stuck at "Validating"

**Solutions:**
- Wait 1-2 minutes - validation can take time for large files
- Check file format is correct
- Verify file isn't corrupted
- For CSV, ensure headers match template exactly

**Problem:** Timeline generation takes very long

**Solutions:**
- This is normal for large datasets - can take 30+ minutes for years of data
- Click "View Detailed Progress" to see what's happening
- Don't close the browser - job continues on server
- You can navigate away and come back later

**Problem:** CSV import fails with format error

**Solutions:**
- Download and use the CSV template
- Verify timestamps are in ISO-8601 format with Z suffix (UTC)
- Check latitude/longitude are in decimal degrees
- Ensure file is UTF-8 encoded
- Verify header row is present and matches template

**Problem:** Duplicate data after import

**Solutions:**
- If you see duplicates, enable "Replace existing data in time range" for your next import
- To clean up duplicates, export data and re-import with replace mode enabled
- Use date range filters to target specific periods

## Data Format Details

### GeoPulse Format Structure

The GeoPulse export is a ZIP file containing JSON files for each data type:
```
geopulse-export-20240115.zip
├── rawgps.json
├── favorites.json
├── reversegeocodinglocation.json
├── locationsources.json
└── userinfo.json
```

Each JSON file contains an array of records in GeoPulse's internal format.

### GPX Export Structure

**Single File Mode:**
```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<gpx>
  <trk>
    <name>Raw GPS Track</name>
    <trkseg>
      <trkpt lat="37.7749" lon="-122.4194">
        <time>2024-01-15T10:30:00Z</time>
      </trkpt>
    </trkseg>
  </trk>
  <wpt lat="37.7750" lon="-122.4195">
    <name>Stay Point</name>
    <time>2024-01-15T10:30:00Z</time>
  </wpt>
</gpx>
```

**ZIP Archive Mode:**
```
geopulse-export-20240115.zip
├── 2024-01-15/
│   ├── trip-morning-commute.gpx
│   ├── stay-home.gpx
│   └── trip-evening-commute.gpx
└── 2024-01-16/
    └── trip-weekend-hike.gpx
```

### CSV Format Example

```csv
timestamp,latitude,longitude,accuracy,velocity,altitude,battery,device_id,source_type
2024-01-15T10:30:00Z,37.7749,-122.4194,10.5,5.2,100.0,85.0,device123,CSV
2024-01-15T10:35:00Z,37.7750,-122.4195,8.3,12.8,105.2,84.8,,CSV
2024-01-15T10:40:00Z,37.7751,-122.4196,,15.5,,,device789,GPX
```

### Supported GeoJSON Features

GeoPulse imports GeoJSON files with:
- **Point features** - Individual location points
- **LineString features** - Tracks/routes (converted to points)

Example:
```json
{
  "type": "FeatureCollection",
  "features": [
    {
      "type": "Feature",
      "geometry": {
        "type": "Point",
        "coordinates": [-122.4194, 37.7749]
      },
      "properties": {
        "timestamp": "2024-01-15T10:30:00Z"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Frequently Asked Questions

**Q: What's the maximum file size for imports?**
A: The frontend (Nginx) has a default limit of 200MB, and the backend (Quarkus) has a maximum limit of 2GB. The 200MB frontend limit can be increased by setting `CLIENT_MAX_BODY_SIZE` in your deployment configuration (see [Frontend Nginx Configuration](/docs/system-administration/configuration/frontend)). Files approaching 2GB will take longer to upload and process.

**Q: Can I import data while the system is still processing a previous import?**
A: No, GeoPulse processes one import job at a time per user to ensure data integrity. Wait for the current job to complete before starting another.

**Q: Will importing data delete my existing location history?**
A: Only if you enable "Replace existing data in time range." Otherwise, data is merged with duplicate detection.

**Q: How long are export files stored on the server?**
A: Export files are temporary. Download them promptly after creation. The system may clean up old exports after a period of time.

**Q: Can I schedule automatic exports?**
A: Not currently through the web interface. However, you can use the GeoPulse API to create automated backup scripts.

**Q: Does importing GPS data automatically create timeline items?**
A: Yes! GeoPulse automatically analyzes imported GPS data and generates timeline items (trips and stays). This process happens after GPS import and is tracked with detailed progress.

**Q: What happens if my import fails midway?**
A: The system tracks import progress. If an import fails, you can restart it. If "Replace existing data" was enabled, the database transaction ensures either all data is imported or none is.

**Q: Can I import data from multiple sources?**
A: Yes! Import files from different sources sequentially. GeoPulse will merge them intelligently, using timestamps to organize your complete location history.

**Q: Which format should I use for backing up my data?**
A: Use the **GeoPulse** format with all data types selected. This ensures you have a complete backup that can be fully restored.

**Q: Why does GPX export include both tracks and waypoints?**
A: Tracks represent continuous movement (trips and raw GPS data), while waypoints represent stay points. This provides a complete picture of your activity in GPX viewers like GPXSee.

Commit message:

Added chunk file upload during import. Added Import settings to Admin UI

docs-website/docs/user-guide/interacting-with-data/import-export.md, after:

---
title: Importing & Exporting Data
description: Import location data from various sources and export your GeoPulse data.
---

# Importing & Exporting Data

GeoPulse provides powerful import and export capabilities to help you migrate data from other tracking platforms, back up your location history, and analyze your data in external tools. The system uses efficient streaming parsers to handle files of any size with minimal memory usage.

## Accessing Import/Export

Navigate to **Menu → Import/Export Data** to access both import and export functionality in a tabbed interface.

## Exporting Data

Export your GeoPulse data in various formats for backup, migration, or analysis in external tools.

![Export Tab](/img/export-tab.png)

### Supported Export Formats

GeoPulse supports five export formats, each optimized for different use cases:

| Format | Description | Best For | Data Included |
|--------|-------------|----------|---------------|
| **GeoPulse** | Native format with all data types | Full backups, migration between GeoPulse instances | All data types (configurable) |
| **OwnTracks** | OwnTracks JSON format | Importing into OwnTracks apps | GPS data only |
| **GeoJSON** | Standard GIS format | GIS tools, mapping software, custom analysis | GPS data only |
| **GPX** | GPS Exchange Format | GPX viewers (GPXSee, QGIS), Garmin devices | GPS tracks, trips, stay waypoints |
| **CSV** | Comma-Separated Values | Excel, data analysis, custom scripts | GPS data with metadata |

### Export Workflow

#### 1. Select Export Format

Choose your desired format from the format options. Each format displays a description of what it's compatible with.

#### 2. Configure Format-Specific Options

**GeoPulse Format:**
- Select which data types to include:
  - **Raw GPS Data** - All location points with timestamps and accuracy
  - **Favorite Locations** - Saved favorite places
  - **Reverse Geocoding Data** - Cached address information
  - **Location Sources** - GPS tracking app configurations
  - **User Information** - Profile and preferences (excludes passwords)
- Use "Select All" or "Deselect All" for quick selection
- **Note:** Timeline data is not included in exports as it will be automatically regenerated from GPS data after import

**GPX Format:**
- **Single GPX File** - One file containing all tracks (raw GPS + timeline trips) and waypoints (timeline stays)
- **ZIP Archive** - Multiple GPX files packaged together
  - **Individual grouping** - One file per trip/stay
  - **Daily grouping** - All trips and stays for each day in one file

**CSV Format:**
Exports GPS data with the following fields:
- `timestamp` - ISO-8601 format (UTC)
- `latitude` - Decimal degrees
- `longitude` - Decimal degrees
- `accuracy` - GPS accuracy in meters (if available)
- `velocity` - Speed in km/h (if available)
- `altitude` - Altitude in meters (if available)
- `battery` - Battery percentage (if available)
- `device_id` - Device identifier (if available)
- `source_type` - Data source type

#### 3. Select Date Range

Choose the time period for your export:

**Preset Options:**
- **Last 30 Days** - Recent activity
- **Last 90 Days** - Quarterly data
- **Last Year** - Annual backup
- **All Time** - Complete history

**Custom Range:**
Use the date pickers to specify exact start and end dates.

#### 4. Start Export

Click **Start Export** to begin the export job. The system will:
1. Validate your selections
2. Create an export job
3. Process data in the background
4. Prepare the download file

### Monitoring Export Progress

Once started, you'll see a "Current Export Job" card displaying:

- **Status** - Pending, Processing, or Completed
- **Data Types** - What's being exported
- **Date Range** - Time period covered
- **Progress Bar** - Real-time completion percentage

**Status Tags:**
- 🔵 **Pending** - Job queued for processing
- 🔄 **Processing** - Actively exporting data
- ✅ **Completed** - Ready for download

### Downloading Exports

When the export completes:

1. A success notification appears
2. **Download** button becomes available in the Current Export Job card
3. Click **Download** to save the file to your computer
4. Files are automatically named with timestamps (e.g., `geopulse-export-20240115-143022.zip`)

:::tip Export Expiration
Export files are stored temporarily on the server. Download them promptly after completion.
:::

### Deleting Exports

Click the **Delete** button to remove an export job and free up server storage. You'll be asked to confirm this action as it cannot be undone.

## Importing Data

Import location data from other tracking platforms or restore GeoPulse backups.

![Import Tab](/img/import-tab.png)

### Supported Import Formats

GeoPulse can import data from six different formats:

| Format | Description | File Types | Use Case |
|--------|-------------|------------|----------|
| **GeoPulse** | Native GeoPulse exports | `.zip` | Restoring backups, migrating between servers |
| **OwnTracks** | OwnTracks export files | `.json` | Migrating from OwnTracks |
| **Google Timeline** | Google Takeout exports | `.json` | Importing Google Location History |
| **GPX** | GPS Exchange Format | `.gpx`, `.zip` | Garmin devices, fitness trackers, GPX files |
| **GeoJSON** | GeoJSON Point/LineString | `.json`, `.geojson` | GIS data, custom exports |
| **CSV** | Structured CSV format | `.csv` | Custom data sources, spreadsheets |

### Import Workflow

#### 1. Select Import Format

Choose the format that matches your source data. Each format displays:
- Accepted file types
- Description of what will be imported

#### 2. Choose Export File

Click **Choose Export File** and select your file. The system validates:
- File format matches the selected import type
- File size (any size supported thanks to streaming parser)
- File structure and contents

#### 3. Review Format-Specific Information

**GeoPulse Format:**
Select which data types to import (same options as export). You can choose to import only specific data types from a full backup.

**Other Formats (OwnTracks, Google Timeline, GPX, GeoJSON, CSV):**
An information message explains what data will be imported. These formats only support GPS location data.

**CSV Format:**
When CSV is selected, you'll see:
- **Download CSV Template** button - Get a properly formatted template
- **CSV Format Specification** - Required and optional fields
- **Example CSV** - Sample data format
- **Format Rules** - Encoding, headers, and timestamp requirements

**CSV Template Fields:**

Required:
- `timestamp` - ISO-8601 format (e.g., 2024-01-15T10:30:00Z)
- `latitude` - Decimal degrees (-90 to 90)
- `longitude` - Decimal degrees (-180 to 180)

Optional:
- `accuracy` - GPS accuracy in meters
- `velocity` - Speed in km/h
- `altitude` - Altitude in meters
- `battery` - Battery percentage (0-100)
- `device_id` - Device identifier
- `source_type` - Data source name

#### 4. Configure Import Options

**Import Only Data Within Date Range:**
- Enable this checkbox to filter imported data by date
- Select start and end dates
- Only location points within this range will be imported
- Useful for partial imports or testing

**Replace Existing Data in Time Range:**
- **Enabled:** Deletes existing data in the import time range before importing new data
  - 🧹 **Cleaner data** - Ensures no duplicates
  - ⚠️ **Warning:** Permanently deletes existing data in the time range
  - **Use for:** First-time imports or when re-importing corrected data
- **Disabled:** Merges new data with existing data
  - Checks for duplicates before inserting
  - **Use for:** Incremental imports or adding new data to existing timeline

#### 5. Start Import

Click **Start Import** to begin. The system will:

1. **Upload** - Transfer file to server with progress tracking
2. **Validate** - Check file format and structure
3. **Process** - Parse and import data using streaming parser
4. **Generate Timeline** - Automatically create timeline items from GPS data

### Monitoring Import Progress

The import process provides detailed progress tracking across multiple phases:

**Upload Phase:**
- Progress bar showing upload percentage
- File size and upload speed indicators
- Phase descriptions (Starting upload, Uploading, Finalizing)

**Processing Phase:**
After upload, you'll see:
- **Current status** - Validating, Processing, or Completed
- **File name** - Uploaded file
- **Data types** - What's being imported
- **Progress bar** - Overall completion percentage
- **Progress phases:**
  - Parsing import data
  - Importing GPS points (bulk inserting or merging)
  - Generating timeline

**Timeline Generation:**
When GPS data import reaches ~70%, timeline generation begins automatically. You'll see:
- **Timeline Generation** section with its own progress bar
- **Current step** - What the timeline generator is doing
- **Key metrics:**
  - GPS points loaded (e.g., "25,000 / 100,000 GPS points loaded")
  - Locations geocoded (e.g., "150 / 200 locations geocoded (10 pending)")
- **View Detailed Progress** button - Opens timeline job details in a new tab

:::info Automatic Timeline Generation
GeoPulse automatically analyzes your GPS data to create timeline items (trips and stays) after import. This process runs in the background and can take several minutes depending on the amount of data.
:::

### Import Completion

When the import finishes successfully:

1. Success notification appears
2. **Import Summary** displays:
   - 📍 GPS points imported
   - 🕒 Timeline items generated
   - ❤️ Favorite locations imported
   - 📱 Location sources imported

### Efficient Memory Usage

GeoPulse uses **streaming parsers** and **chunked uploads** for all import operations, which means:

- ✅ **Low memory usage** - Data is processed in chunks, not loaded entirely into memory
- ✅ **Fast processing** - Efficient algorithms handle large datasets quickly
- ✅ **Handles very large files** - Files up to 10GB supported (configurable)
- ✅ **Bypasses CDN limits** - Chunked uploads work around Cloudflare's 100MB limit
- ✅ **Reliable** - Handles interrupted imports gracefully with resume capability

**How It Works:**
- Files smaller than 80MB are uploaded directly
- Larger files are automatically split into 50MB chunks on the frontend
- Chunks are reassembled on the backend before processing
- Streaming parsers process data incrementally without loading entire files into memory

**File Size Limits:**
- **Default maximum:** 10GB (configurable via `GEOPULSE_IMPORT_MAX_FILE_SIZE_GB`)
- **Frontend (Nginx):** 200MB default for direct uploads - chunked uploads bypass this

:::tip Large File Imports
For files larger than 80MB, GeoPulse automatically uses chunked uploads. This works seamlessly behind the scenes - just select your file and the system handles the rest. See [Import Configuration](/docs/system-administration/configuration/import) for advanced settings.
:::

This architecture allows you to import years of location history with efficient memory usage.

## Tips and Best Practices

### For Exports

1. **Regular backups** - Export your data monthly using GeoPulse format
2. **Test exports** - Try exporting a small date range first to verify format compatibility
3. **Choose the right format:**
   - Full backup → GeoPulse
   - GPS visualization → GPX or GeoJSON
   - Data analysis → CSV
   - Platform migration → Match target platform format

### For Imports

1. **Start with small files** - Test with a small date range or file first
2. **Use date filters** - Import specific time periods to avoid overwhelming the system
3. **Use "Replace data" for clean imports** - Recommended for first-time imports or when re-importing corrected data
4. **Use merge mode for incremental imports** - Safer when adding new data to existing timeline
5. **Monitor timeline generation** - Allow time for timeline processing to complete
6. **Verify imports** - Check Timeline and GPS Data pages after import

### Performance Optimization

1. **Large files** - Files up to 10GB are supported by default (configurable up to any size). Large files use chunked uploads for reliability
2. **Network speed** - Upload time depends on your internet connection. Chunked uploads show progress and can resume if interrupted
3. **Timeline generation** - Can take several minutes for large datasets (years of data)
4. **Advanced configuration** - For performance tuning, see [Import Configuration](/docs/system-administration/configuration/import)
5. **Import mode selection:**
   - Replace mode: Clean slate, no duplicates, recommended for first-time imports
   - Merge mode: Preserves existing data, checks for duplicates, use for incremental updates

## Troubleshooting

### Export Issues

**Problem:** Export button is disabled

**Solutions:**
- Ensure you've selected a date range
- For GeoPulse format, select at least one data type
- Verify start date is before end date

**Problem:** Export file won't download

**Solutions:**
- Check your browser's download settings
- Disable popup blockers
- Try a different browser
- Check available disk space

### Import Issues

**Problem:** File upload fails

**Solutions:**
- Verify file format matches selected import type
- Check file isn't corrupted (try opening in appropriate app)
- Try a different browser

**Problem:** Upload fails with "413 Request Entity Too Large" or file size error

**Solutions:**
- For files >80MB, GeoPulse automatically uses chunked uploads which bypass most CDN limits
- If you still see this error, check if your file exceeds the 10GB default maximum
- The maximum can be increased via `GEOPULSE_IMPORT_MAX_FILE_SIZE_GB` (see [Import Configuration](/docs/system-administration/configuration/import))
- For direct (non-chunked) uploads of small files, you may need to adjust `CLIENT_MAX_BODY_SIZE` (see [Frontend Configuration](/docs/system-administration/configuration/frontend))

**Problem:** Import stuck at "Validating"

**Solutions:**
- Wait 1-2 minutes - validation can take time for large files
- Check file format is correct
- Verify file isn't corrupted
- For CSV, ensure headers match template exactly

**Problem:** Timeline generation takes very long

**Solutions:**
- This is normal for large datasets - can take 30+ minutes for years of data
- Click "View Detailed Progress" to see what's happening
- Don't close the browser - job continues on server
- You can navigate away and come back later

**Problem:** CSV import fails with format error

**Solutions:**
- Download and use the CSV template
- Verify timestamps are in ISO-8601 format with Z suffix (UTC)
- Check latitude/longitude are in decimal degrees
- Ensure file is UTF-8 encoded
- Verify header row is present and matches template

**Problem:** Duplicate data after import

**Solutions:**
- If you see duplicates, enable "Replace existing data in time range" for your next import
- To clean up duplicates, export data and re-import with replace mode enabled
- Use date range filters to target specific periods

## Data Format Details

### GeoPulse Format Structure

The GeoPulse export is a ZIP file containing JSON files for each data type:
```
geopulse-export-20240115.zip
├── rawgps.json
├── favorites.json
├── reversegeocodinglocation.json
├── locationsources.json
└── userinfo.json
```

Each JSON file contains an array of records in GeoPulse's internal format.

### GPX Export Structure

**Single File Mode:**
```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<gpx>
  <trk>
    <name>Raw GPS Track</name>
    <trkseg>
      <trkpt lat="37.7749" lon="-122.4194">
        <time>2024-01-15T10:30:00Z</time>
      </trkpt>
    </trkseg>
  </trk>
  <wpt lat="37.7750" lon="-122.4195">
    <name>Stay Point</name>
    <time>2024-01-15T10:30:00Z</time>
  </wpt>
</gpx>
```

**ZIP Archive Mode:**
```
geopulse-export-20240115.zip
├── 2024-01-15/
│   ├── trip-morning-commute.gpx
│   ├── stay-home.gpx
│   └── trip-evening-commute.gpx
└── 2024-01-16/
    └── trip-weekend-hike.gpx
```

### CSV Format Example

```csv
timestamp,latitude,longitude,accuracy,velocity,altitude,battery,device_id,source_type
2024-01-15T10:30:00Z,37.7749,-122.4194,10.5,5.2,100.0,85.0,device123,CSV
2024-01-15T10:35:00Z,37.7750,-122.4195,8.3,12.8,105.2,84.8,,CSV
2024-01-15T10:40:00Z,37.7751,-122.4196,,15.5,,,device789,GPX
```

### Supported GeoJSON Features

GeoPulse imports GeoJSON files with:
- **Point features** - Individual location points
- **LineString features** - Tracks/routes (converted to points)

Example:
```json
{
  "type": "FeatureCollection",
  "features": [
    {
      "type": "Feature",
      "geometry": {
        "type": "Point",
        "coordinates": [-122.4194, 37.7749]
      },
      "properties": {
        "timestamp": "2024-01-15T10:30:00Z"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Frequently Asked Questions

**Q: What's the maximum file size for imports?**
A: The default maximum is 10GB, which can be increased via configuration. GeoPulse uses chunked uploads for large files, automatically splitting them into smaller pieces to bypass CDN limits like Cloudflare's 100MB restriction. See [Import Configuration](/docs/system-administration/configuration/import) for details on adjusting limits.

**Q: Can I import data while the system is still processing a previous import?**
A: No, GeoPulse processes one import job at a time per user to ensure data integrity. Wait for the current job to complete before starting another.

**Q: Will importing data delete my existing location history?**
A: Only if you enable "Replace existing data in time range." Otherwise, data is merged with duplicate detection.

**Q: How long are export files stored on the server?**
A: Export files are temporary. Download them promptly after creation. The system may clean up old exports after a period of time.

**Q: Can I schedule automatic exports?**
A: Not currently through the web interface. However, you can use the GeoPulse API to create automated backup scripts.

**Q: Does importing GPS data automatically create timeline items?**
A: Yes! GeoPulse automatically analyzes imported GPS data and generates timeline items (trips and stays). This process happens after GPS import and is tracked with detailed progress.

**Q: What happens if my import fails midway?**
A: The system tracks import progress. If an import fails, you can restart it. If "Replace existing data" was enabled, the database transaction ensures either all data is imported or none is.

**Q: Can I import data from multiple sources?**
A: Yes! Import files from different sources sequentially. GeoPulse will merge them intelligently, using timestamps to organize your complete location history.

**Q: Which format should I use for backing up my data?**
A: Use the **GeoPulse** format with all data types selected. This ensures you have a complete backup that can be fully restored.

**Q: Why does GPX export include both tracks and waypoints?**
A: Tracks represent continuous movement (trips and raw GPS data), while waypoints represent stay points. This provides a complete picture of your activity in GPX viewers like GPXSee.
